Data Structure Lab Exam Programs List

1. a) Define a structure called Student with the members: Name, Reg_no, marks in 3 tests and 
average_ marks.
Develop a menu driven program to perform the following by writing separate function for each 
operation: a) read information of N students b) display student’s information c) to calculate the 
average of best two test marks of each student.
Note: Allocate memory dynamically and illustrate the use of pointer to an array of structure.

b) Define a structure called Time containing 3 integer members (Hour, Minute, Second). 
Develop a menu driven program to perform the following by writing separate function for 
each operation.
a) Read (T) :To read time b) Display (T):To display time c) update(T):To Update time d) Add 
(T1, T2) : Add two time variables.
Update function increments the time by one second and returns the new time (if the increment 
results in 60 seconds, then the second member is set to zero and minute member is incremented 
by one. If the result is 60 minutes, the minute member is set to zero and the hour member is 
incremented by one. Finally, when the hour becomes 24, Time should be reset to zero. While 
adding two time variables, normalize the resultant time value as in the case of update function.
Note: Illustrate the use of pointer to pass time variable to different functions.



2. Develop a menu driven program to implement the following operations on an array of 
integers with dynamic memory allocation.
i) Insert by position ii) Delete by position iii) Insert by key iv) Delete by key v) Insert by order 
vi) Search by key vii) Search by position viii) Reverse the contents.


3. Implement circular single linked list to perform the following operations
 i) Insert by order ii ) Delete by position iii) Search for an item by key
 Display the list contents after each operation


4. Implement circular double linked list to perform the following operations
 i) Insert by order ii ) Delete by key iii) Search by position
 Display the list contents after each operation


5. Implement circular single linked list to perform the following operations
i) Insert front ii) Insert rear iii) Delete a node with the given key iv) Search for an item by 
position
 Display the list contents after each operation


6. Implement circular double linked list to perform the following operations
i) Insert front ii) Insert rear iii) Delete kth node iv) Search for an item by value.
 Display the list contents after each operation


7. Implement circular single linked list to perform the following operations
i) Insert by position ii) Delete rear iii) Delete Front iv) Search for an item by value
 Display the list contents after each operation


8. Implement circular double linked list to perform the following operations
i) Insert by order ii) Delete rear iii) Delete Front iv) Search for an item by position
 Display the list contents after each operation


9. Develop a menu driven program to convert infix expression to postfix expression using 
stack (Test for nested parenthesized expressions)


10. Develop a menu driven program to convert infix expression to prefix expression using 
stack (Test for nested parenthesized expressions)


11. Develop a menu driven program to evaluate postfix and prefix expressions using 
stack.


12. Develop a menu driven program to implement the following types of Queues by allocating 
memory dynamically.
i) Circular Queue ii) Double ended Queue


13. Develop a menu driven program to implement the following types of Queues by 
allocating memory dynamically.
i) Circular Queue ii) Priority Queue


14. Develop a menu driven program to implement Binary Search tree with the following 
operations.
i) Construction ii) Traversals ( Pre, In and Post Order) iii) Searching a node by key 
and displaying its information along with its parent is exists, otherwise a suitable 
message. iv) Counting all types of nodes. v) Finding height


15. Develop a menu driven program to implement Binary Search tree with the following 
operations.
i) Construction ii) Traversals( Pre, In and Post Order) iii) Searching a node by key 
and deleting if exists ( node to be deleted may be leaf or non- leaf with one child or 
two children
